[[6. Control Dependence]] can lead to lead to control hazards, which can cause stalls in the pipeline. 

A control hazard occurs when the CPU cannot determine early enough whether a conditional branch will be taken, or it cannot determine the target address of the control transfer, disrupting the smooth flow of execution. 

For example, the PC cannot be changed until after a conditional branch is decoded. Since the address of the next instruction is needed, a stall occurs in the pipeline. Modern processors actually stall for multiple cycles. 

To avoid the stall, the CPU can 
- Determine whether the conditional branch will be taken earlier 
- Determine the target address of the transfer of control earlier, 
- delay the execution of the branch until the information is available. 

Transfers of control occur relatively frequently, so they tend to be a limiting factor for exploiting ILP. 

# Addressing Control Hazards

There are several ways to deal with pipeline stalls caused by branch delays. 

1. Freeze or Flush the Pipeline
	1. Freeze or flush the pipeline until the branch destination is known; this is the simplest approach, and has a fixed branch penalty. 
2. Predict Not Taken
	1. Predict the branch as not taken, and allow the processor to continue as if the branch weren't executed; works, but we cannot allow an instruction to change processor state until the outcome of the branch is known. 
3. Predict Taken
	1. Branches are taken more often then not; a single stall is needed because we don't know the target of the branch, but we don't need to wait for Execution. 
4. Delayed Branches
	1. Popular in RISC processors, find an instruction that is processed no matter what branch is taken. Useful for some pipelines, they became more complex for systems with deeper pipelines. 
5. Branch Prediction
	1. [[8. Branch Prediction]] :)